I download the population microdata file (77 million data points) from the Integrated Public Use Microdata Series (IPUMS) for the years 2000 to 2023 and calculate 1. the the citizen population and naturalized immigrant population in each state, 2. immigrant population from each country in each state, 3. immigrant population from each country in USA. the calculation is performed on Stata, and the code is shown in the file "Stata code, Calculation of immigrant-related numbers by using IPUMS data file".
I export the results from the first step into Excel files "immigrant population from each counrty in USA", "immigrant population from each country in each state", "immigration ratio".
The first page of the Excel file "immigrant population from each counrty in USA" is exported from the Stata analysis. In the second page, I organize the data and calculated the federal-level immigrant growth rate, which is the "shift" component in the shift-share instrument. 3. “Kamiyama” is a personal term I use in Excel to indicate meaningless or nonexistent values, as a tribute to Kamiyama City in *Hyouka*.
Columns A to E in the Excel file "immigrant population from each country in each state" is exported from the Stata analysis. Column F reports the share of immigrants from each country in each state's population; its value in 2000 serves as the “share” component in the shift-share instrument.
Based on the excel file "immigrant population from each counrty in USA" and the excel file "immigrant population from each country in each state", I create the Excel file "SSIV construction". In this file, I calculated the value of the SSIV instrument, and there are three steps corresponding to the three Excel pages. In the first page, I calcualte the number of state immigrants from each country if the growth rate of state immigration equals the federal immigration, and the result is shown in column H. In the second page, I aggregate the data from the first page and calculate the total "predicted" number of immigrants in each state, and the resul is shown in column P. In the third page, I divide the total "predicted" number of immigrants by the number of citizens and get the value of SSIV, as shown in column E.
The first page of the Excel file "immigration ratio" is exported from the Stata analysis. The column F in the first page shows the state-level immigrant-to-citizen ratio, which is the core independent variable for this paper. In the second page, I calculate the federal-level immigrant-to-citizen ratio (as shown in column J), which is the value of the instrument "federal immigration" (Table 2 in the paper).
